[MUSIC]
>> Aaron Frost: This function comes from,
a lot of languages have
these things now,
they're called lambdas, right?
In JavaScript, the idea of lambda
doesn't make a lot of sense.
Not that it doesn't make sense,
but in other languages,
it's more significant, because you have to
tie functions to methods to objects and
it's just like a random
object-less function,
that doesn't make a lot of sense,
but we have that now.
And for
us it's just a different syntax for
functions than we've
always kind of have this.
But it does have some
different performance stuff
that you may not be used to.
Like the way your code used to run is not
the way it's gonna run if you use these
arrow functions.
So I'm gonna go through that, and
I'm gonna explain to you how will
my code be running different?
If I just replace my functions with
lambdas, not only will it kind of break,
it's gonna totally break.
Like big time, major.
And I'll explain why.
So, yeah, so arrow functions,
that terminology comes from CoffeeScript,
again.
And CoffeeScript has two
versions of the same thing, okay?
So CoffeeScript, and
I'm gonna explain it because it has some
relevance in what we're gonna do, okay?
So, CoffeeScript has a fat arrow function,
and a skinny arrow function, okay?
So we have two flavors of arrow functions.
JavaScript only took the fat
arrow function, okay?
And if anyone knows CoffeeScript,
and you understand the difference between
the fat arrow functions and the skinny
arrow functions, then you already know
what I'm about to teach you, okay?
Because this arrow function in JavaScript,
does the exact same thing.
Which it didn't, regular functions don't.
So precedence, you've got lambdas and
the fat arrow function from CoffeeScript.
Again, we're taking these de facto
standards from other languages.
And ES6 is gonna throw
the word fat off of the front,
and just call it arrow functions.
They didn't need to call it fat arrow,
because we don't have two of them, so
we don't have to specify the difference.
And there was talk, there was talk
about bringing over the other one too,
but they were like we can
already do it that way.
Let's not bring over both,
it's too much of a learning curve for
new people, let's just keep one.
And if you guys go through the logs
you'll read why it ended up this way.
So these two functions are a lot alike,
okay?
And if you execute them, for this example,
they'll execute the exact same, okay?
So, like one of the main
differences you'll notice is
we had to use the word function for
our first example.
So we're not using the word function,
okay?
So that will help with minification,
that's kind of nice, right?
So, we'll get performance enhancements
at least there by using these.
We're still using parenthesis for
the parameters.
So we don't have any parameters, so
up here we have these parameters,
these parentheses with nothing in them,
over here empty parentheses so.
And then, we just kinda do this fat arrow.
We kinda point at the function body and
we just put a 2, and
it's gonna implicitly return that.
Whereas in the top function,
if we wanted it to return it,
we had to say go ahead and
return this, okay?
So you could wrap the body
of this arrow function.
You could wrap it in
braces if you want to.
Like if you wanna put squiggly
braces around it, do it.
It's gonna stop implicitly
returning though.
It only implicitly returns if
you don't wrap the body, okay?
So the second you put
parenthesis up there,
you're gonna lose that implicit return, so
you're gonna have to type the word return.
So that might be confusing.
Parens for parameters, no single brace for
the single-line arrow of function bodies.
So you could do multiple-line
on arrow function bodies and
on multiple-lines you are gonna
need to wrap it with braces.
But if you're just doing one line,
I'm thinking D3.
D3 there's a lot of like .data and
then a function, and .this and a function.
And then just one thing in the line thing.
You could do a lot of this stuff for
that kind of stuff.
So on the single line arrow
functions with no braces,
it does implicitly return like we said.
So I kinda wanna talk about the
parentheses around the parameters rules.
And some of you guys are gonna love this.
I can already tell.
But shout it out if you
absolutely love it.
Shout it out.
Okay, so if you have no parameters,
you have to use parentheses.
So if you don't have any parameters,
you must use parentheses.
If you have one parameter and
one only, it's optional,
you can either use parentheses or
not, okay?
Everything else but
I'm not talking about everything else,
I'm just talking about the parameters,
okay?
And then two or more,
you have to parentheses around them.
So basically another way to
sum this up is with only one
parameter, it's optional parentheses,
okay?
So I wish they wouldn't have done that,
I wish they would just say
hey it's always parentheses.
There's no not parentheses,
it's always parentheses, do it that way.
Anyway so
that's the other way to sum this up,
is when you only have one parameter you
don't have to put the parentheses in.
Because you're probably going to come
in here one day and refactor it and
do comma other thing and
you're gonna get an error because you
forgot to put the parentheses around.
I'll probably always use them,
just because I don't like to deal
with those kind of problems.
And I'm sure like uglify will go through
and be like, hey do you only have one,
cool, I'm gonna freaking
remove the stuff out.
I'm sure all our build tools will
take care of stripping off that
extra parentheses, if we don't need them.
You know what I'm saying?
And if you have a function that's only one
line, and you have a return statement.
I'm sure that the uglifiers will be like,
dude get rid of the return or
take the braces off and just make it one.
We'll get some stuff.
We'll get some tooling around that
will make this stuff easier, but
yeah I'm not sure.
So anyway, so
let's talk about the body declaration.
So again I kind of talked about this.
So here we have a function.
It takes a number, and then it returns
the number times itself, right?
>> Aaron Frost: And this is if you want
to wrap the body with braces, you can,
but you've got to then give
it a return statement.
>> Aaron Frost: So
that's gonna get confusing too.
I think some people run into some bugs
where they take a one line method in make
it two and they forget to add
the return value on the second line.
You know what I'm saying?
Or the return instruction.
I think that they'll be like,
why isn't this working?
So anyway, just keep that in mind.